# Basic Syntax and Data Types

LUA is a lightweight and easy to learn programming language. In this section, we will cover the basic structure of a LUA script, as well as the different data types available and how to manipulate them.

## Script Structure
A LUA script is a plain text file with the `.lua` file extension. The script is executed from top to bottom, and it can contain a combination of statements, comments, and functions.

### Statements
Statements are commands that perform a specific action, such as assigning a value to a variable or calling a function. 

-- This is a statement that assigns the value "hello" to the variable "greeting"
greeting = "hello"

### Comments
Comments are used to add notes or explanations to the code and are ignored by the interpreter. In LUA, comments are created using double dashes (`--`).
```lua
-- This is a comment and will be ignored by the interpreter
greeting = "hello"
```
### Functions
Functions are blocks of code that perform a specific task and can be reused throughout the script. Functions are defined using the `function` keyword and are called using their name followed by parentheses (`()`).
```lua
-- This is a function that prints a greeting message
function sayHello()
    print("Hello!")
end

-- This is how the function is called
sayHello()
```

## Data Types
LUA supports several data types, including:

### Numbers
Numbers are used to represent numeric values and can be integers or floating-point numbers.
```lua
-- This is a number
age = 25

-- This is also a number, but with a decimal point
price = 9.99
```
### Strings
Strings are used to represent text and are enclosed in double or single quotes.
```lua
-- This is a string
name = "John"

-- This is also a string
address = '123 Main St'
```
### Booleans
Booleans are used to represent true or false values.
```lua
-- This is a boolean
isValid = true

-- This is also a boolean
isCompleted = false
```
### Tables (see 6. Tables and Metatables)
Tables are used to store collections of values and can be used as arrays or dictionaries.
```lua
-- This is a table
myTable = {1, 2, 3}

-- This is also a table, but with named keys
myDictionary = {name = "John", age = 25}
```
### Manipulating Data
LUA provides several built-in functions and operators for manipulating data, such as concatenating strings, performing mathematical operations, and more.
```lua
-- Concatenating strings
greeting = "Hello, " .. "world!"

-- Performing mathematical operations
sum = 2 + 2
difference = 10 - 5
product = 2 * 3
quotient = 10 / 2
```
This is just a small introduction to LUA basic syntax and data types, there is much more to learn and explore, such as control structures, libraries and modules, OOP and more.

Please keep in mind that the code snippets will not run as it is and it is intended to be used as an example and reference.