# Flow Control

In LUA, flow control statements are used to control the flow of execution of a script. These include `if`, `else`, `elseif`, `for`, `while`, and `repeat` statements.

## If-Else Condition
The `if` statement is used to check if a certain condition is true and execute a block of code if it is. The `else` statement is used as an alternative if the condition is not true.
```lua
-- If-else statement
local x = 5
if x > 10 then
    print("x is greater than 10")
else
    print("x is less than or equal to 10")
end`
```
## Elseif Condition
The `elseif` statement is used to check multiple conditions. If the first condition is not true, the script will check the next one, and so on, until a true condition is found or the end of the script is reached.
```lua
-- Elseif statement
local x = 5
if x > 10 then
    print("x is greater than 10")
elseif x < 0 then
    print("x is less than 0")
else
    print("x is between 0 and 10")
end`
```
## For Loop
The `for` loop is used to iterate over a range of numbers or elements in an array or table. The loop variable is declared and initialized before the loop, and the loop will continue until the end condition is met.
```lua
-- For loop
for i = 1, 10 do
    print(i)
end`
```
## While Loop
The `while` loop is used to execute a block of code repeatedly as long as a certain condition is true.
```lua
-- While loop
local x = 5
while x > 0 do
    print(x)
    x = x - 1
end
```

## Repeat Until
The `repeat` statement is used to execute a block of code repeatedly until a certain condition is met. The code block is executed at least once before the condition is checked.
```lua
-- Repeat until
local x = 5
repeat
    x = x - 1
    print(x)
until x == 0
```
The above code snippet will execute the loop until x is equal to 0, and the value of x will be decremented in each iteration.

Please keep in mind that the code snippets will not run as it is and it is intended to be used as an example and reference.